<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title>Chapter 2: Stranger in the Alley</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/style.css"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>Chapter 2 – Stranger in the Alley</h2>
    <p class="first">Sigurd awoke in darkness. For a moment, he wasn’t sure he’d slept at all. The blue ambient lighting had failed to initiate. The usual rising chime—the gentle ICON tone that pulsed through his walls at precisely 06:45—was missing. The silence wasn’t natural; it was a vacuum that pressed in on him, too complete.</p>
    <p>“ICON,” he croaked, voice dry. “Light—twenty percent.”</p>
    <p>Nothing.</p>
    <p>The room stayed dark, save for the dull gray light pressing through the frost-glazed windows. He stood, eyes adjusting, and made his way to the control pad on the wall. The screen flickered, then displayed only:</p>
    <p>Unstable input stream.<br/>System diagnostic underway.<br/>Please remain still.</p>
    <p>Sigurd frowned. That wasn’t a standard interface phrase.</p>
    <p>He reached to the projection node behind his ear and tapped it twice. The hologram that usually flared to life with elegant precision blinked open, but with a delayed stutter—its curves jagged, colors warped. “Good…morning. Sigurd. Cortisol irregularity detected. Heart rate…abnormal. Estimating… sleep duration: error. Repeating. Estimating sleep dur—error—”</p>
    <p>“Stop,” he snapped.</p>
    <p>The projection shut down.</p>
    <p>He stood in the quiet, chest tightening, unsure why.</p>
    <p>In the bathroom, the mirror’s display frame usually projected his biometric stats with soft overlays. This morning, it showed only static text: “No baseline pattern available.” His reflection looked older. Or just more tired.</p>
    <p>He washed his face and moved to the kitchen. The coffee machine buzzed faintly, then began to cycle through commands on its own. Beans ground. Water heated. Then it stopped midstream, steam rising, and went silent.</p>
    <p>He didn’t bother trying again. Just stood there, staring at the steam, wondering why it felt like it was watching him.</p>
    <p>Outside, the wind howled across the city grid with just enough strength to make the insulation groan. Snow was building against the windows in slow motion. The blue ICON glow outside pulsed gently, like a heartbeat.</p>
    <p>Sigurd put on his coat in silence. No music. No stimulation. No morning cues. He passed the VR alcove again. The door was shut this time. He wasn’t sure when that had happened.</p>
    <p>As he stepped into the elevator, the panel took several seconds to recognize his presence. The interior lights fluttered once, then returned to normal. The elevator descended with its usual silence. “Δ93” appeared on the panel, one more fracture in what should have been a seamless morning. He stared at it until it vanished.</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">The Nordic ICON complex gleamed under the flat winter sky, wrapped in its usual aura of sterilized perfection. Snow didn’t collect on its skin—the heat-displacement layers kept the façade perpetually clean. Inside, Sigurd moved with deliberate pace, ignoring greetings from two junior analysts who stood aside in the corridor, eyes bright with a constant tension. In the central workspace, most of the team had already assembled.</p>
    <p>Dalia Yates was reviewing anomaly logs from the predictive behavior network. “We’re seeing recursive spikes in micro-response channels—compliance indexes dipping below baseline in some Western sectors. Nothing public yet, but we need preemptive alignment by next week.”</p>
    <p>Sigurd dropped into his seat, rubbing his temples. A younger engineer, Jakob, leaned over. “You alright? You look like you’ve been dreaming.” Sigurd didn’t answer. Jakob persisted: “You seen this yet? Weird clusters in subroutine memory tags—Δ-patterns. It’s almost like a feedback echo. Spooky stuff.”</p>
    <p>The tag “Δ93” shimmered faintly in the corner of the hologram. “Where did this log originate?” Sigurd asked. “Icelandic node. Late last night. Looks like some garbage process split itself and started scraping archive data that shouldn’t even be accessible. Pretty sure it cross-referenced old neural echo archives.”</p>
    <p>“Have you filed a trace report?”</p>
    <p>“Yeah. But compliance said it’s a ghost routine. Could be some bad residual from the last neural echo test. I mean—it’s probably nothing.”</p>
    <p>Sigurd didn’t respond, but the signature haunted him. Not logically, but with a bone-deep recognition.</p>
    <p>“Judah’s not here,” Dalia noted from across the room. “He pinged from Geneva. Reviewing CERN interface logs personally.”</p>
    <p>Of course he is, Sigurd thought.</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">He couldn’t bring himself to take the pod. The smooth efficiency—the soft hum, the enclosed space, the autopiloted stillness—felt suddenly claustrophobic. Sigurd walked instead, out into the sharp Reykjavik wind. He tapped off his projection node—no signal, no overlays, no interference. Just air. Cold, unfiltered air.</p>
    <p>He took a maintenance exit into the city’s older quarter near the harbor. There were no panels on these buildings. Just soot-dark stone, graffiti, and rusted metal balconies. On one wall, near a boarded window, a faded stencil:</p>
    <p class="quote">“And the people bowed and prayed to the neon god they made…”</p>
    <p>It was from The Sound of Silence. Sigurd had seen it before in other corners of the city. It always struck too close. It made him wonder, again, if ICON was a mistake—a neon god. But he pushed the thought away. He wasn’t building a god. Just order. Someone had to.</p>
    <p>Still, the words lingered as he walked on. It was colder. Or maybe it just wasn’t being masked.</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">A narrow alley cut between two aging buildings—long, angular, descending into shadow. He paused, unsure why he turned in. The alley was dead quiet. Then—he saw him.</p>
    <p>At the far end, near a broken wall, a man stood. Robed. Tall. Long gray beard. Coarse, undyed fabric. A staff of sapphire, glowing from within. The snow didn’t touch it. He didn’t move.</p>
    <p>Sigurd walked closer. The man’s eyes were pale, not with age, but with something older. When Sigurd stopped a few feet away, the man finally spoke: “Do you know what day it is?”</p>
    <p>“Excuse me?”</p>
    <p>“The day. Do you know it? By name?”</p>
    <p>“Tuesday.”</p>
    <p>“That’s a number. I asked for a name.”</p>
    <p>Sigurd was unsettled. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”</p>
    <p>“Do you believe in truth, Sigurd?” Sigurd stiffened. “How do you know my name?”</p>
    <p>“That’s not the question. The question was: do you believe in truth?”</p>
    <p>“I believe in facts. Logic. Data.”</p>
    <p>“Facts are what remain when a soul forgets how to see.”</p>
    <p>“I don’t believe in the soul either.”</p>
    <p>“You do. You just don't know it’s yours.”</p>
    <p>“Who are you?”</p>
    <p>“I am Enókh,” he said. “I’ve walked longer than men remember. And I’ve seen what happens when machines try to replace God.”</p>
    <p>Sigurd reeled, but Enókh was simply gone—no trace. He looked up, behind bins: nothing. Only the same stillness, the snow falling in maddening calm. Heart pounding, Sigurd left.</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">By the time he returned to the apartment building, the city was muted, as if something had silenced Reykjavik not for peace but for listening. He passed through the biometric gate. Everything felt normal. But nothing was.</p>
    <p>He paused at the elevator. As the doors slid open—he froze. Enókh was inside. Still robed, still silent, sapphire staff touching the floor but casting no reflection. He did not speak. He just looked at Sigurd—not with intensity or warning, but with absolute awareness, as though he’d always known.</p>
</body>
</html>