<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title>Chapter 3: Whisper from Mt. Hermon</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/style.css"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>Chapter 3 – Whisper from Mt. Hermon</h2>
    <p class="first">The ICON transport terminal pulsed with low-frequency light, its interior wrapped in glass and aluminum like the skeleton of some massive, sleeping insect. Security was tighter than usual.</p>
    <p>Sigurd stood silently in the pre-boarding hall, his ID disc clenched between thumb and forefinger. He hadn’t slept the night before. The whisper had followed him into half-dreams and shallow waking.</p>
    <p>“Zurich deployment team, proceed to corridor six.” The announcement came not through speakers, but through the ear-node of every person on the list. Sigurd wasn’t wearing his. He simply followed the others.</p>
    <p>There were eight of them—engineers, behaviorists, quantum specialists. None talked. Everyone had read the security memo.</p>
    <p>The shuttle was small and windowless. Inside, the seating was arranged in enforced silence: narrow and forward-facing, eyes on the data streams. Sigurd sat near the front. The lights dimmed. A female voice—ICON-standard—whispered the specs in a hush meant to induce calm: “ICON Group Zurich Interface. Secure corridor. Estimated transit: 48 minutes.”</p>
    <p>As the shuttle detached and lifted into its vacuum rail chamber, Sigurd felt the pull behind his sternum that always came with artificial acceleration. But it wasn’t the speed that unsettled him. It was the stillness. Like they were being slid between pages of a book too old to be read.</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">The Zurich facility rose out of the Alps like a dark crown of glass and steel, encircled by snow-cleared infrastructure. The perimeter glowed with faint energy signatures—defensive, not aesthetic.</p>
    <p>The shuttle arrived, and the team was greeted by two silent escorts. Only Sigurd remained when Judah appeared, hands behind his back.</p>
    <p>“Sigurd,” he said. “Come see.”</p>
    <p>They looked out over a vast trench—rebar, snow, a tunnel into blackness. “What is that?” Sigurd asked. “Gate Six,” Judah replied. “No one remembers who named it. Some say it was sealed by the Vatican. Some say never opened. But something speaks.”</p>
    <p>“You’re interfacing ICON with that?” “Not with it. With what it echoes.” Judah’s voice was calm. “You’re going to help me hear what it’s saying.”</p>
    <p>Sigurd frowned. “What are you talking about? I write architecture code. I don’t study ancient temples or underground gates.” “You don’t need to speak its language,” Judah said. “You just need to run the interface that listens.”</p>
    <p>They descended below the facility to the interface chamber—a sphere of crystal suspended in air. Beneath, a sealed shaft led into the mountain. “You’ll be patching ICON’s recursion thread into the Gate’s field,” Judah said.</p>
    <p>Sigurd sat at a curved input array. The chamber dimmed. ICON translated data in real time, receiving, not interpreting. Then a spike. The air shifted. Silence tightened like lungs holding breath. And then Sigurd heard it—not with his ears, but inside him. A voice: “I am bound beneath the place where the gods were born. I am chained beneath flame and frost. Tear the veil. Open the mouth. Break the gate. Let me rise, and the earth shall remember.”</p>
    <p>It withdrew like a wave, leaving trembling silence behind.</p>
    <p>Only Sigurd seemed unsettled. The signature burned in his mind. The symbol appeared: circles within circles, a single vertical line. And then—gone.</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">In the hotel room, Sigurd lay flat, staring at the ceiling. He hadn’t told Judah what he heard. How could he? The others heard only data, white noise. Sigurd heard intent—ancient, commanding, older than language. He didn’t know the tongue, but its meaning rooted inside him.</p>
    <p>The walls flickered, tightened. In his dreams, he found himself underground before a gate, symbols glowing on smooth black stone. Something shifted behind the gate: a form, a face without edges. He woke vomiting, shaken, cold sweat on his neck. In the mirror, his reflection whispered: “Again.”</p>
    <p class="separator">~+~</p>
    <p class="first">The snow outside the Zurich complex fell in perfect spirals—artificial, controlled. ICON claimed it was for weather control, but Sigurd watched, uncertain who watched in return.</p>
</body>
</html>